Topic:

An Installation that makes people more aware of their digital footprint.



Context:

Every day, whether we want to or not, most of us contribute to a growing portrait of who we are online; a portrait that is probably more public than we assume.

This portrait helps companies target content at specific markets and consumers, helps employers look into your background, and helps advertisers track your movements across multiple websites. Whatever you do online, you might be leaving digital footprints behind.



Your digital footprint paints a picture of who you are and its unique to every individual.

Surprisingly very few people are aware about it.

It's important to be conscious of the impact and the consequences of the footprint you leave behind.





How the prototype will work:



Step 1: Participant will have to answer 5-7 questions ( Randomly shuffled )



For example : 

Have you ever accessed a website giving permission to the use of Cookies? (EU e-Privacy Directive)

How many social media accounts do you have?

Do you access the internet from your mobile phone?

Do you open advertisements on web pages? 

Do you Comment on articles and blog covering topics important to you?

Do you Share thoughts on the Facebook pages of your favorite shows and causes?

Do you Join Twitter chats about topics you care about?

Do you Engage in Twitter backchannel conversations to make meaning of lectures?

Do you Comment on the videos that inspire and teach you?



Step 2: 

The user will input their answers using various hardware sensors


Step 3:

Received input will generate a pattern using processing which will be unique to the very participant. 


Step 4:

The pattern will be mapped and scaled on an Internet Web Icon to show you your impact on your Data-Footprint visually. 


Step 5:

You can compare it to last 5 participants Data-Footprint along with a fact related to the impact of a digital footprint.

Additionally, you can print it on the card as a souvenir and email to yourself as a reminder to show you your footprint


Impact :

This installation can help start conversations around Online privacy and cybersecurity making people more aware and conscious about their internet usage and online presence  



Why this Project? :

Help me merge and use both processing and Arduino by adding the programming and electronics component to my final projec








